# Flow Actions
[Click here to return to the README](../README.md)

[Click here to return to the Actions page](actions.md)

## Select
The `select` action selects the specified columns, dropping all other columns.

Arguments:
- `columns`: a list of the columns that should be selected

Example:
```yaml
- action: select
  columns:
    - some_column
    - some_other_column
```

## Drop
The `drop` action drops the specified columns, keeping all other columns.

Arguments:
- `columns`: a list of the columns that should be dropped

Example:
```yaml
- action: drop
  columns:
    - some_column
    - some_other_column
```

## Rename
The `rename` action renames certain fields from one name to another, optionally making a copy instead.

Arguments:
- `columns`: a list of key-value pairs, where the key is name of the column that should be renamed, and the value is the name to which it should be renamed
- `copy`: optional, default `false`: whether the columns should be copied to their new name, instead of being replaced.

Example:
```yaml
- action: rename
  copy: true
  columns:
    some_column: some_column_new_name
    some_other_column: some_other_column_new_name
```

## Join
The `join` action joins the workflow to another workflow as the left one.

Arguments:
- `right`: the `shortname` for the other workflow that should be joined to the current one. This shortname must exist within the config file for the ETL Process.
- `how`: the manner in which the workflows should be joined. Can be the keyword value of [any spark-supported join type](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/pyspark.sql.html?highlight=read%20csv#pyspark.sql.DataFrame.join)
- `columns`: a set of key-value pairs, where the key is the column in the current (left) workflow and the value is the column in the other (right) workflow to which it corresponds.
- `broadcast_right`: optional, default `false`: whether the other (right) workflow should be broadcast prior to joining, which improves join performance at the cost of using more memory. This should only be `true` for relatively small workflows.

Example:
```yaml
- action: join
  how: inner
  right: other_workflow
  broadcast_right: true
  columns:
    some_field: some_field
    some_other_field: yet_another_field
```

## Filter
The `filter` action segregates rows based on a boolean field, and optionally sends those rows as the starting point of another workflow.

Arguments:
- `field`: the name of the field that should used to filter. It should a boolean field. Rows having a value that evaluates to `true` will be segregated from rows that have a value that evaluates to `false`
- `type`: optional, default `out`: controls whether the rows having a `true` value should be removed (ie, filtered `out`) from the workflow or retained (ie, filtered `in`)
- `send_to`: optional, default `null`: if this argument is passed then the rows that are removed from the workflow will be sent to another workflow having the `shortname` passed as the value of this argument.
- `cache_first`: optional, default `false`: if this argument is true then the contents of the workflow will cached prior to being segregated. This can improve performance when rows are being sent to another workflow.

Example:
```yaml
- action: filter
  type: in
  field: a_boolean_field
  send_to: yet_another_workflow
  cache_first: true
```

## Do Nothing
The `do_nothing` step executes no actions, but does produce a line in the log. It can be useful for sending annotations or other data in the comments, or for marking the start of a workflow that is generated by another workflow (eg, due to a `filter` action)

Arguments:
- None

Example:
```yaml
- action: do_nothing
  comment: this step is more useful than you think!
```

## Union Workflows
The `union` step unions two or more workflows by column name. Columns are null-filled if they exist in one workflow but not the others. This action should only be used as the first action in a new workflow.

Arguments:
- `workflows`: an array containing the shortnames of workflows that should be unioned together

Example:
```yaml
- action: union
  workflows:
    - a_workflow
    - another_workflow
```